README.rst, before:

============
Layer Linter
============


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/layer_linter.svg
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/layer_linter

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/layer-linter.svg
    :alt: Python versions
    :target: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/layer-linter/

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/seddonym/layer_linter.svg?branch=master
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/seddonym/layer_linter

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/seddonym/layer_linter/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
        :target: https://codecov.io/gh/seddonym/layer_linter

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/layer-linter/badge/?version=latest
        :target: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status

Layer Linter checks that your project follows a custom-defined layered architecture, based on
its internal dependencies (i.e. the imports between its modules).

* Free software: BSD license
* Documentation: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io.

**Warning:** This software is currently in beta. This means there may be changes that break backward
compatibility. However, due to it being a development tool (rather than something that needs to be installed
on a production system), it should be suitable for inclusion in your testing pipeline. It also means we actively
encourage people to try it out and `submit bug reports`_.

.. _submit bug reports: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/contributing.html#report-bugs

Overview
--------

Layer Linter is a command line tool to check that you are following a self-imposed
architecture within your Python project. It does this by analysing the internal
imports between all the modules in your code base, and compares this
against a set of simple rules that you provide in a ``layers.yml`` file.

For example, you can use it to check that no modules inside ``myproject.foo``
import from any modules inside ``myproject.bar``, even indirectly.

This is particularly useful if you are working on a complex codebase within a team,
when you want to enforce a particular architectural style. In this case you can add
Layer Linter to your deployment pipeline, so that any code that does not follow
the architecture will fail tests.

Quick start
-----------

Install Layer Linter::

    pip install layer-linter

Decide on the dependency flows you wish to check. In this example, we have
organised our project into three subpackages, ``myproject.high``, ``myproject.medium``
and ``myproject.low``. These subpackages are known as *layers*. Note: layers must
have the same parent package (i.e. all be in the same directory).

Create a ``layers.yml`` in the root of your project. For example:

.. code-block:: none

    My Layers Contract:
      packages:
        - myproject
      layers:
        - high
        - medium
        - low

(This contract tells Layer Linter that the order of the layers runs from ``low`` at the bottom
to ``high`` at the top. Layers higher up can import ones lower down, but not the other way around.)

Note that the package is an absolute name, while the layers are relative to the package.

Now, from your project root, run::

    layer-lint myproject

If your code violates the contract, you will see an error message something like this:

.. code-block:: none

    ============
    Layer Linter
    ============

    ---------
    Contracts
    ---------

    Analyzed 23 files, 44 dependencies.
    -----------------------------------

    My layer contract BROKEN

    Contracts: 0 kept, 1 broken.

    ----------------
    Broken contracts
    ----------------


    My layer contract
    -----------------


    1. myproject.low.x imports myproject.high.y:

        myproject.low.x <-
        myproject.utils <-
        myproject.high.y

For more details, see `Usage`_.

.. _Usage: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage.html

Commit message:

Updated docs to refer to containers instead of packages

README.rst, after:

============
Layer Linter
============


.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/layer_linter.svg
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/layer_linter

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/layer-linter.svg
    :alt: Python versions
    :target: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/layer-linter/

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/seddonym/layer_linter.svg?branch=master
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/seddonym/layer_linter

.. image:: https://codecov.io/gh/seddonym/layer_linter/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
        :target: https://codecov.io/gh/seddonym/layer_linter

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/layer-linter/badge/?version=latest
        :target: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status

Layer Linter checks that your project follows a custom-defined layered architecture, based on
its internal dependencies (i.e. the imports between its modules).

* Free software: BSD license
* Documentation: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io.

**Warning:** This software is currently in beta. This means there may be changes that break backward
compatibility. However, due to it being a development tool (rather than something that needs to be installed
on a production system), it should be suitable for inclusion in your testing pipeline. It also means we actively
encourage people to try it out and `submit bug reports`_.

.. _submit bug reports: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io/en/stable/contributing.html#report-bugs

Overview
--------

Layer Linter is a command line tool to check that you are following a self-imposed
architecture within your Python project. It does this by analysing the internal
imports between all the modules in your code base, and compares this
against a set of simple rules that you provide in a ``layers.yml`` file.

For example, you can use it to check that no modules inside ``myproject.foo``
import from any modules inside ``myproject.bar``, even indirectly.

This is particularly useful if you are working on a complex codebase within a team,
when you want to enforce a particular architectural style. In this case you can add
Layer Linter to your deployment pipeline, so that any code that does not follow
the architecture will fail tests.

Quick start
-----------

Install Layer Linter::

    pip install layer-linter

Decide on the dependency flows you wish to check. In this example, we have
organised our project into three subpackages, ``myproject.high``, ``myproject.medium``
and ``myproject.low``. These subpackages are known as *layers*. Note: layers must
have the same parent package (i.e. all be in the same directory). This parent is known as a *container*.

Create a ``layers.yml`` in the root of your project. For example:

.. code-block:: none

    My Layers Contract:
      containers:
        - myproject
      layers:
        - high
        - medium
        - low

(This contract tells Layer Linter that the order of the layers runs from ``low`` at the bottom
to ``high`` at the top. Layers higher up can import ones lower down, but not the other way around.)

Note that the container is an absolute name of a Python package, while the layers are relative to the container.

Now, from your project root, run::

    layer-lint myproject

If your code violates the contract, you will see an error message something like this:

.. code-block:: none

    ============
    Layer Linter
    ============

    ---------
    Contracts
    ---------

    Analyzed 23 files, 44 dependencies.
    -----------------------------------

    My layer contract BROKEN

    Contracts: 0 kept, 1 broken.

    ----------------
    Broken contracts
    ----------------


    My layer contract
    -----------------


    1. myproject.low.x imports myproject.high.y:

        myproject.low.x <-
        myproject.utils <-
        myproject.high.y

For more details, see `Usage`_.

.. _Usage: https://layer-linter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage.html
